technological bias report

My research technology is 3D modeling.

This technology becomes more and more advanced with the time flies and audience cares more about how real those models or special effects can achieve in games of films at the end. In games of films, the more and more advanced 3D modeling may help producers to make those complicated special effects easier and more conveniently, and help the audience to have better and more enjoyable quality gaming or filming experience. But also the more and more lifelike and vivid models or special effects can be seen as a way to escape from real life.People may spend more time in virtual life instead of the real life. So this can be seen as a technological bias. The models or special effects that 3D modeling technology created are actually made by people, who come from the real world, but the reason why those people created those models or special effects is to help others escape from the real world. This lets me feel ironic. Also, those models or special effects that 3D modeling technology created do not have consciousness, but they are designed for people who can see them or have interests in them. What’s more, the non-consciousness models or special effects in games or films can control people’s mind and let them become addicted to games.

At the same time, with the development of time, the software used for 3D modeling has become more and more powerful. It may take a dozen hours to render a model at first, but now it may only need several hours. Also, 3D modeling has become more and more mechanized. It may take a lot of people to complete a model at first, but now, as long as there is a design draft, the computer can help us to complete the rest. I think this makes 3D modeling become more and more fake, more and more unrealistic from the meaning way. But people are increasingly pursuing the authenticity and perfection of 3D modeling, but in fact, it is true that what is done on a computer is always fake.
