Technological Ecology report

My research technology is 3D modeling.

The form of the Internet has always been the 2D model, but with the continuous advancement of 3D technology, in the next 5 years, there will be more and more Internet applications presented to users in 3D, including network video, E-reading, virtual communities, online games, e-commerce, distance education, and more. Even for the tourism industry, 3D Internet can also play a role in promoting. Some world attractions, sculptures, and antiques will allow users to experience in the form of 3D on the Internet. This experience is far more shocking than the 2D environment.

  Taking the fast-evolving e-commerce as an example, huge amounts of goods need to be displayed on the Internet. Specialized, personalized, and authentic merchandise display is particularly important. However, due to the constraints of the production cost of 3D models, these demands can only be temporarily two-dimensional. Photographs to meet, resulting in the product or object information passed to the consumer is not comprehensive, detailed, realistic, reducing the consumer's desire to buy and purchase accuracy. The 3D merchandise display technology can display products interactively in a web page. Consumers can view merchandise features in all directions and intuitively understand product information. The effect is almost the same as that of consumers directly facing the merchandise. Many manufacturers have adopted pseudo-three-dimensional effects (sequence photo rotation) to temporarily replace the display of three-dimensional models. It can be seen that the market is eager for 3D modeling technology.

For example, 3D modeling can be used in making CG effects in films. CG technology is not only part of the application of film production, such as special effects in temporary actors, backgrounds, or action films. Some films are all done by CG Technology, such as some animations. Future films will be closely linked with technology in the future, and it is not certain what the consequences will be. Although we have seen a lot of positive significance, there is still a lot of controversy here, such as whether filmmakers should remember the origin of the film, rather than morbidly consider this technology as a quick solution to the problem. However, we are aware that the film industry will grow and change as the level of science and technology continues to improve. When we look back at the film works that were influenced and changed by modern technology in the past, we can be sure that the future will become what we cannot imagine now. So the 3D Modeling can be applied in future films.

Also, the VR technique also can be seen as the develop trend in the future which need the help of 3D modeling. The games that use VR to play must need 3D modeling to build scenes and characters.

So 3D Modeling technology can affect the world in many ways.
